1) What is cloud computing?
Cloud computing is an internet based new age computer technology. It is the next stage technology that uses the clouds to provide the services whenever and wherever the user need it.It provides a method to access several servers world wide.
2) What are the benefits of cloud computing?
The main benefits of cloud computing are:
Data backup and storage of data.
Powerful server capabilities.
Incremented productivity.
Very cost effective and time saving.
Software as Service known as SaaS.
3) What is a cloud?
A cloud is a combination of networks ,hardware, services, storage, and interfaces that helps in delivering computing as a service. It has three users :
End users
Business management users
cloud service provider
4) What are the different data types used in cloud computing?
There are different data types in cloud computing like emails, contracts, images , blogs etc. As we know that data is increasing day by day so it is needed to new data types to store these new data. For an example, if you want to store video then you need a new data type.
5) Which are the different layers that define cloud architecture?
Following are the different layers that are used by cloud architecture:
CLC or Cloud Controller
Walrus
Cluster Controller
SC or Storage Controller
NC or Node Controller
6) Which platforms are used for large scale cloud computing?
The following platforms are used for large scale cloud computing:
Apache Hadoop
MapReduce
7) What are the different layers in cloud computing? Explain working of them.
There are 3 layers in the hierarchy of cloud computing.
Infrastructure as a service (IaaS):It provides cloud infrastructure in terms of hardware as like memory, processor, speed etc.
Platform as a service (PaaS):It provides cloud application platform for the developer.
Software as a service (SaaS)::It provides the cloud applications to users directly without installing anything on the system. These applications remains on cloud
8) What do you mean by software as a service?
Software As a Service (SaaS) is an important layer of cloud computing. It provides cloud applications like Google is doing. It facilitate users to save their document on the cloud and create as well.
9) What is the platform as a service?
It is also a layer in cloud architecture. This model is built on the infrastructure model and provide resources like computers, storage and network. It is responsible to provide complete virtualization of the infrastructure layer, make it look like a single server and invisible for outside world.
10) What is on-demand functionality? How is it provided in cloud computing?
Cloud computing provides a on-demand access to the virtualized IT resources. It can be used by the subscriber. It uses shared pool to provide configurable resources. Shared pool contains networks, servers, storage, applications and services.
11) What are the platforms used for large scale cloud computing?
Apache Hadoop and MapReduce are the platforms use for large scale cloud computing.
12) What are the different models for deployment in cloud computing?
These are the different deployment model in cloud computing:
Private cloud
Public cloud
Hybrid cloud
Community cloud
13) What is private cloud?
Private clouds are used to keep the strategic operations and other reasons secure. It is a complete platform which is fully functional and can be owned, operated and restricted to only an organization or an industry. Now a day, most of the organizations have moved to private clouds due to security concerns. Virtual private cloud is being used that operate by a hosting company.
14) What is public cloud?
The public clouds are open to the people for use and deployment. For example: Google and Amazon etc. The public clouds focus on a few layers like cloud application, infrastructure providing and providing platform markets.
15) What are Hybrid clouds?
Hybrid clouds are the combination of public clouds and private clouds. It is preferred over both the clouds because it applies most robust approach to implement cloud architecture. It includes the functionalities and features of both the worlds. It allows organizations to create their own cloud and allow them to give the control over to someone else as well.
35) We source cloud computing platform databases?
Following are the open source cloud computing platform databases:
MongoDB
CouchDB
LucidDB
