1.	What is the difference b/w yum and rpm?
While RPM is the packaging format, yum is the command you will use to do the installation. For example, yum will resolve and download the dependencies for the package you want to install; rpm will simply complain if you want to install a package that does not have all its dependencies installed.
2.	How yum will work 
YUM works through the use of software repositories, or repos, special directories that hold collections of software packages
3.	How to get the listen ports in our system 
How to check for open ports on Windows
Open the Command Prompt. ...
Type “netstat -aon” and hit enter.
Look for the port numbers in the LISTening state. ...
If the port numbers aren't in the LISTening state, you'll need to open them manually.
4.	How to check particular service-related port number
To list what services are listening* on a particular port on a device in your environment, run the following commands in a Windows Command Line or a Linux Terminal window on the device the port is on: Windows: netstat -ano | findstr [Port Number] Linux: netstat -ano | grep [Port Number]
5.	How to list only files
The ls command is the one that can be used to list the files from directories. The “ls” command works the same as how we manually go through the directory and then get all of the files that we want but it makes it easy for us to enlist them by just running a simple command.
6.	How to find multiple words using grep command
How do I search multiple words in grep?
The syntax is:
Use single quotes in the pattern: grep 'pattern*' file1 file2.
Next use extended regular expressions: grep -E 'pattern1|pattern2' *. py.
Finally, try on older Unix shells/oses: grep -e pattern1 -e pattern2 *. pl.
Another option to grep two strings: grep 'word1\|word2' input.
7.	How to replace multiple words or URLs using sed command
Using Sed to Replace Multiple Strings in a Single Command
The s/line/sentence/g command matches all instances of word "line" and replaces them with word "sentence".
The s/first/initial/g command matches all instances of word "first" and replaces them with word "initial"
8.	How to display selected lines in a file
How do I display certain lines from a text file in Linux?
Use head and tail Commands
We first use the head command to get lines 1 through X from our input file.
We then pipe the output from the first step into the tail command to retrieve the last entry: head -n X input | tail -1.
9.	How to change the file permission
Permission to read and write. 7. Permission to read, write and execute. There are three types of users in Linux: one is Owner, second is Group and third is Others and the chmod 777 means that all the users can read, write, or execute the file.
10.	How to check disc space in Linux
That command is df -H. The -H switch is for human-readable format. The output of df -H will report how much space is used, available, percentage used, and the mount point of every disk attached to your system (Figure 1).
11.	How to check highest size files
The procedure to find largest files including directories in Linux is as follows:
Open the terminal application.
Login as root user using the sudo -i command.
Type du -a /dir/ | sort -n -r | head -n 20.
du will estimate file space usage.
sort will sort out the output of du command.
12.	Without changing permission to share file or directory which folder we will use in Linux
There are three kinds of file permissions in Linux:
Read (r): Allows a user or group to view a file.
Write (w): Permits the user to write or modify a file or directory.
Execute (x): A user or grup with execute permissions can execute a file or view a directory.
13.	What access control list
An access control list (ACL) is made up of rules that either allow access to a computer environment or deny it. In a way, an access control list is like a guest list at an exclusive club. Only those on the list are allowed in the doors.
14.	How to get particular field of a file
Use head and tail Commands
We first use the head command to get lines 1 through X from our input file.
We then pipe the output from the first step into the tail command to retrieve the last entry: head -n X input | tail -1.
15.	How to list running process in our system
Type the ps aux or ps -e to see all running process in Linux. Alternatively, you can issue the top command or htop command to view running process in Linux.
16.	How to list the installed packages in Linux 
To list installed packages on Ubuntu or any Debian distro, run "apt list --installed" in the Terminal. Run "dnf list installed" to list installed packages on Fedora. With thousands of free Linux applications, it's easy to lose track of what you once installed but no longer use.
17.	How do you list all running process? 
to see a full list of all running processes, you can do it in a number of ways:
Open an Admin Command Prompt and type "tasklist". You can also output this to a file by running "tasklist > c:\temp\list. ...
From PowerShell, run "Get-Process". ...
Open Task Manager and view all running processes there.
18.	What is swap
Swap space in Linux is used when the amount of physical memory (RAM) is full. If the system needs more memory resources and the RAM is full, inactive pages in memory are moved to the swap space.
19.	How to find attached disc in Linux system 
Swap space in Linux is used when the amount of physical memory (RAM) is full. If the system needs more memory resources and the RAM is full, inactive pages in memory are moved to the swap space.
20.	What is the booting procedure of Linux system
Booting a Linux installation involves multiple stages and software components, including firmware initialization, execution of a boot loader, loading and startup of a Linux kernel image, and execution of various startup scripts and daemons.
































































